---
layout: post
title: Fake Economies
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

I’m creating a DVD of my eldest daughter’s school dance concert because it wasn’t professionally recorded and all the parents would like a copy. Being the type of person that I am, I want to make it look reasonably professional, and with iMovie and iDVD that’s fairly simple. But I also wanted to print labels for the DVD, so that the discs themselves look good.

Somewhere along the way from the UK to Australia I’ve lost my CD label press, so I went into OfficeWorks to get one, and to pick up some ink cartridges because my printer is low on ink. The cheapest CD label press they had was $25 and a pair of ink cartridges (colour and black) were almost $70! When I bought the printer it was less than $95!

I was shocked by how fake the printer economy has become, with the ink costing nearly as much as the printer. In the UK, Lexmark had a particularly bad reputation for loss leading on the printer, in some cases charging more for the ink than the cost of the printer. These days all printers are built down to a price and all the manufacturers make it up on the ink. No wonder they go so far out of their way to dissuade you from using third party ink!

I decided not to pay $95 for some ink and a label press. The DVDs I have are printable so I actually spent an extra $20 and bought a printer that can print directly onto the discs. It will look more professional and I get a warranty out of it too. I’m sure that the ink cartridges supplied won’t be completely full, but they’re individual cartridges unlike my old printer, so it should be more economical to run, and I can buy cheaper third party ink for the old printer and not worry about the consequences!
