---
layout: post
title: "Welcome to the real world!"
---
To hijack and abuse yet another quote from "The Matrix":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0133093/, "welcome to the real world!" a.k.a. or at least my new home in the virtual one! After being inspired by "@TheColonial":http://twitter.com/TheColonial and his adventures with "Blogofile":http://www.blogofile.com/, I decided that I needed to move my blog to a system that was backed by a version control system.

I had a number of reasons for doing this:

# I wanted to be in complete control of all of my data.
# I wanted to be able to compose and edit posts offline.
# I wanted to somewhere to host materials from the talks that I give.

The solution I ended up going with was "GitHub Pages":http://pages.github.com. Firstly because it is free. Secondly because it is awesome!

Your entire site is a repository that you can clone like any other git repository. The difference is that when you push changes back to GitHub, it automatically runs "Jekyll":http://jekyllrb.com/ (a blog aware static site generator) and republishes the resulting site for you. The beauty of Jekyll is that a normal HTML site is also a valid Jekyll site, so normal HTML sites will pass through unchanged.

If you do take advantage of Jekyll however, you can create HTML templates using "Liquid":http://www.liquidmarkup.org/ and author content in "Markdown":http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/ or "Textile":http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/. It even supports syntax highlighting courtesy of "Pygments":http://pygments.org/.

I've moved the techincal and technology related posts from "Tumblr":http://craigaspinall.tumblr.com over to here so anyone transferring over can still access my old content, and anyone arriving here for the first time has something to read. 
